in this video let us take some sample algorithms and
analysed their time complexity
First let us take this code. Here, the value of
iterating variable i get multiplied by 2 every time
So how to find the time complexity of this algorithm
for that First let us right the values of i
in each iteration
In first iteration the value of i will be one
And if the next iteration the value of i will
be 1*2=2  and in the
next iteration
The value of i will be 2*2=4
and in the next iteration 4*2=8
and in the next iteration
8*2=16
And it will go like this. In general we can
say it as 2 power k
So when will the loop terminate. Here, The for loop condition
is i less than n And so when the value of i
becomes greater than or equal to n, this loop will
terminate if we assume i equal to n,
2 power k = n
As we already found the value of i, that is
2 power k. To solve this, take log to the
base 2 on both sides
So we will get the left hand side like this
k*log 2 base2 which is equivalent to
one
So we got value of K is Log n base2
So the time complexity of this algorithm is order of
log n
Now let us take another example here the value of
iterating variable i
get divided by 2 every time
So let us try to find the time complexity of
this algorithm
So let us write
the values of i in each iteration
In first iteration it will be n And in the
second iteration it will be n/2 then
n/4 then n/8 and it will go
like this.
And in general the value of i will be
n/2 power k. And, when will the loop terminate
here, The for loop condition is i greater than 1
So when the value of is lesser than or equal
to 1, this loop will terminate. If we assume
i=1 then n/2 power k =1
n/2 power k =1
As we have already found the value of i that
is n/2 power K and to solve this
Take log on both sides
So at the right hand side we will get
K log2 base 2 which is equivalent to 1
So we got k equal to log n base2
So the time complexity of this algorithm is
order of Log n
Now let us say another example
He are the for loop condition is i*i less than n
And so when will the Loop terminate
when i*i is greater than or equal to n
this Loop will terminate if we assume
i*i=n
That is i square equal to n
Then i equal to square root of n. So the time
complexity of this algorithm is order of square root of n.
That's it.